docs/usage-r.rst, before:

With R
======


Introduction
------------


`R <https://www.r-project.org/>`_ is a free software environment for statistical computing and graphics. The `reticulate <https://rstudio.github.io/reticulate>`_ package provides a comprehensive set of tools for seamless interoperability between Python and R. It basically allows for execution of Python code inside an R session, so that Python packages can be used with minimal adaptations, which is ideal for those who would rather operate from R than having to go back and forth between languages and environments.

The package provides several ways to integrate Python code into R projects:

- Python in R Markdown
- Importing Python modules
- Sourcing Python scripts
- An interactive Python console within R.

Complete vignette: `Calling Python from R <https://rstudio.github.io/reticulate/articles/calling_python.html>`_.


This tutorial shows how to import a Python scraper straight from R and use the results directly with the usual R syntax: `Web scraping with R: Text and metadata extraction  <https://adrien.barbaresi.eu/blog/web-scraping-text-metadata-r.html>`_.


Installation
------------


The reticulate package can be easily installed from CRAN as follows:

.. code-block:: R

    > install.packages("reticulate")


A recent version of Python 3 is necessary. Some systems already have such an environment installed, to check it just run the following command in a terminal window:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ python3 --version
    Python 3.8.6 # version 3.6 or higher is fine

In case Python is not installed, please refer to the excellent [Djangogirls tutorial: Python installation](https://tutorial.djangogirls.org/en/python_installation/).



``Trafilatura`` has to be installed with `pip <installation.html>`_, `conda <https://docs.conda.io/en/latest/>`_, or `py_install <https://rstudio.github.io/reticulate/reference/py_install.html>`_. Skip the installation of  Miniconda if it doesn't seem necessary, you should only be prompted once; or see `Installing Python Packages <https://rstudio.github.io/reticulate/articles/python_packages.html>`_.

Here is a simple example using the `py_install()` function included in ``reticulate``:

.. code-block:: R

    > library(reticulate)
    > py_install("trafilatura")



Download and extraction
-----------------------

Text extraction from HTML documents (including downloads) is available in a straightforward way:

.. code-block:: R

    # getting started
    > install.packages("reticulate")
    > library(reticulate)
    > trafilatura <- import("trafilatura")
    # get a HTML document as string
    > url <- "https://example.org/"
    > downloaded <- trafilatura$fetch_url(url)
    # extraction
    > trafilatura$extract(downloaded)
    [1] "This domain is for use in illustrative examples in documents. You may use this domain in literature without prior coordination or asking for permission.\nMore information..."
    # extraction with arguments
    > trafilatura$extract(downloaded, output_format="xml", url=url)
    [1] "<doc sitename=\"example.org\" title=\"Example Domain\" source=\"https://example.org/\" hostname=\"example.org\" categories=\"\" tags=\"\" fingerprint=\"lxZaiIwoxp80+AXA2PtCBnJJDok=\">\n  <main>\n    <div>\n      <head>Example Domain</head>\n      <p>This domain is for use in illustrative examples in documents. You may use this\ndomain in literature without prior coordination or asking for permission.</p>\n      <p>More information...</p>\n    </div>\n  </main>\n  <comments/>\n</doc>"

For a full list of arguments see `extraction documentation <corefunctions.html#extraction>`_.

Already stored documents can also be read directly from R, for example with CSV/TSV output and ``read_delim()``, see information on `data import in R <https://r4ds.had.co.nz/data-import.html>`_.


Other functions
---------------

Specific parts of the package can also be imported on demand, which provides access to functions not directly exported by the package. For a list of relevant functions and arguments see `core functions <corefunctions.html>`_.


.. code-block:: R

    # using the code for link discovery in sitemaps
    > sitemapsfunc <- py_run_string("from trafilatura.sitemaps import sitemap_search")
    > sitemapsfunc$sitemap_search("https://www.sitemaps.org/")
    [1] "https://www.sitemaps.org"
    [2] "https://www.sitemaps.org/protocol.html"
    [3] "https://www.sitemaps.org/faq.html"
    [4] "https://www.sitemaps.org/terms.html"
    ...
    # import the metadata part of the package as a function
    > metadatafunc <- py_run_string("from trafilatura.metadata import extract_metadata")
    > downloaded <- trafilatura$fetch_url("https://github.com/rstudio/reticulate")
    > metadatafunc$extract_metadata(downloaded)
    $title
    [1] "rstudio/reticulate"

    $author
    [1] "Rstudio"

    $url
    [1] "https://github.com/rstudio/reticulate"

    $hostname
    [1] "github.com"
    ...


Going further
-------------

- `Basic Text Processing in R <https://programminghistorian.org/en/lessons/basic-text-processing-in-r>`_
- `Quanteda <https://quanteda.io>`_ is an R package for managing and analyzing text:
   - `Quickstart <https://quanteda.io/articles/pkgdown/quickstart.html>`_
   - `Quanteda tutorials <https://tutorials.quanteda.io/>`_
   - `Advancing Text Mining with R and quanteda <https://www.r-bloggers.com/2019/10/advancing-text-mining-with-r-and-quanteda/>`_

Commit message:

docs: update & add html2txt() function

docs/usage-r.rst, after:

With R
======


Introduction
------------


`R <https://www.r-project.org/>`_ is a free software environment for statistical computing and graphics. The `reticulate <https://rstudio.github.io/reticulate>`_ package provides a comprehensive set of tools for seamless interoperability between Python and R. It basically allows for execution of Python code inside an R session, so that Python packages can be used with minimal adaptations, which is ideal for those who would rather operate from R than having to go back and forth between languages and environments.

The package provides several ways to integrate Python code into R projects:

- Python in R Markdown
- Importing Python modules
- Sourcing Python scripts
- An interactive Python console within R.

Complete vignette: `Calling Python from R <https://rstudio.github.io/reticulate/articles/calling_python.html>`_.


This tutorial shows how to import a Python scraper straight from R and use the results directly with the usual R syntax: `Web scraping with R: Text and metadata extraction  <https://adrien.barbaresi.eu/blog/web-scraping-text-metadata-r.html>`_.


Installation
------------


The reticulate package can be easily installed from CRAN as follows:

.. code-block:: R

    > install.packages("reticulate")


A recent version of Python 3 is necessary. Some systems already have such an environment installed, to check it just run the following command in a terminal window:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ python3 --version
    Python 3.8.6 # version 3.6 or higher is fine

In case Python is not installed, please refer to the excellent [Djangogirls tutorial: Python installation](https://tutorial.djangogirls.org/en/python_installation/).



``Trafilatura`` has to be installed with `pip <installation.html>`_, `conda <https://docs.conda.io/en/latest/>`_, or `py_install <https://rstudio.github.io/reticulate/reference/py_install.html>`_. Skip the installation of  Miniconda if it doesn't seem necessary, you should only be prompted once; or see `Installing Python Packages <https://rstudio.github.io/reticulate/articles/python_packages.html>`_.

Here is a simple example using the `py_install()` function included in ``reticulate``:

.. code-block:: R

    > library(reticulate)
    > py_install("trafilatura")



Download and extraction
-----------------------

Text extraction from HTML documents (including downloads) is available in a straightforward way:

.. code-block:: R

    # getting started
    > install.packages("reticulate")
    > library(reticulate)
    > trafilatura <- import("trafilatura")
    # get a HTML document as string
    > url <- "https://example.org/"
    > downloaded <- trafilatura$fetch_url(url)
    # extraction
    > trafilatura$extract(downloaded)
    [1] "This domain is for use in illustrative examples in documents. You may use this domain in literature without prior coordination or asking for permission.\nMore information..."
    # extraction with arguments
    > trafilatura$extract(downloaded, output_format="xml", url=url)
    [1] "<doc sitename=\"example.org\" title=\"Example Domain\" source=\"https://example.org/\" hostname=\"example.org\" categories=\"\" tags=\"\" fingerprint=\"lxZaiIwoxp80+AXA2PtCBnJJDok=\">\n  <main>\n    <div>\n      <head>Example Domain</head>\n      <p>This domain is for use in illustrative examples in documents. You may use this\ndomain in literature without prior coordination or asking for permission.</p>\n      <p>More information...</p>\n    </div>\n  </main>\n  <comments/>\n</doc>"

For a full list of arguments see `extraction documentation <corefunctions.html#extraction>`_.

Already stored documents can also be read directly from R, for example with CSV/TSV output and ``read_delim()``, see information on `data import in R <https://r4ds.had.co.nz/data-import.html>`_.

The ``html2txt`` function extracts all possible text on the webpage, it can be used as follows:

.. code-block:: R

    > trafilatura$html2txt(downloaded)


Other functions
---------------

Specific parts of the package can also be imported on demand, which provides access to functions not directly exported by the package. For a list of relevant functions and arguments see `core functions <corefunctions.html>`_.


.. code-block:: R

    # using the code for link discovery in sitemaps
    > sitemapsfunc <- py_run_string("from trafilatura.sitemaps import sitemap_search")
    > sitemapsfunc$sitemap_search("https://www.sitemaps.org/")
    [1] "https://www.sitemaps.org"
    [2] "https://www.sitemaps.org/protocol.html"
    [3] "https://www.sitemaps.org/faq.html"
    [4] "https://www.sitemaps.org/terms.html"
    ...
    # import the metadata part of the package as a function
    > metadatafunc <- py_run_string("from trafilatura.metadata import extract_metadata")
    > downloaded <- trafilatura$fetch_url("https://github.com/rstudio/reticulate")
    > metadatafunc$extract_metadata(downloaded)
    $title
    [1] "rstudio/reticulate"

    $author
    [1] "Rstudio"

    $url
    [1] "https://github.com/rstudio/reticulate"

    $hostname
    [1] "github.com"
    ...


Going further
-------------

- `Basic Text Processing in R <https://programminghistorian.org/en/lessons/basic-text-processing-in-r>`_
- `Quanteda <https://quanteda.io>`_ is an R package for managing and analyzing text:
   - `Quickstart <https://quanteda.io/articles/pkgdown/quickstart.html>`_
   - `Quanteda tutorials <https://tutorials.quanteda.io/>`_
   - `Advancing Text Mining with R and quanteda <https://www.r-bloggers.com/2019/10/advancing-text-mining-with-r-and-quanteda/>`_
